---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "ICS 414 final"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-12-15
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
---

## Overview of project
This semester's ICS 414 Software Engineering class was quite the experience for me. We were broken up into 4 groups of 7-10 people. The project was to make a legislative bill tracker for the Department of Education. This legislative bill tracker would then track bills from the Hawaii state government that were relevant to the DOE. This would help the department with updating their current legislative tracker, which looks super old and looks like it was made before the dinosaurs. The project was made in React with Bootstrap and Meteor. Some of the features in the app included accepting bills from a data scraper, choosing and assigning bills that were associated with the DOE, uploading testimonies for bills, and viewing any upcoming hearings. 

## More experience
While this is not my first experience working on projects in teams, it is still a nice experience. Although the project was something that I was not fond of and found boring, you can not always control what you get as a project. I honestly lost motivation with doing this project around halfway through the semester, with one of them being not liking the project. It is something that I should work on in the future. For this project, my contributions were creating and testing the hearings pages, the send hearing notice and viewing the hearings. The send hearing notice would be a form that is sent to people when a hearing is coming up that is relevant to them. The view hearings page is where users can go to view the all the bills that are relevant to a specific upcoming hearing.

## Takeaways
One of my main takeaways is doing the code reviews with my team. Our code reviews consisted of reviewing two files every week that the team worked on, and reviewing it against a checklist that was previously made. This helped with my comprehension of other's code and trying to see what can be improved on it. It is interesting to see everyone's different perspective because they would see things that I would not catch myself. One thing that was hard for me was the project management aspect. To me when we first met the customer, the requirements were sort of vague and it was hard to get started on things as we had so much questions. Overall, this experience was beneficial for me in  a way that I got to see the things that I would need to work on continuously throughout my work.